Jeevarasi - The Nature and Pet Sanctuary is a one of its kind educational and experiential park. An initiative to bring the people closer to the wild, a Pondicherry based Trust that mainly focusing on creating awareness among the people by educating the importance of the species by their presence in the wild and need of conservation for the same.
We have collaborated with 200+ schools and NGOs across the globe for spreading the word of awareness and conservation to students, corporates, entrepreneurs and enthusiast at various levels.
We aim at bringing back the age-old reality of safe coexistence between the animals and humans. We bring about the particular change by educating to think in the right sense of conservation and spreading the word of awareness of the natural world.
Jeevarasi is more than just a farm land away from the busy city honks in where you get to connect with the nature at various levels and with a sustainable model of preserving and managing the waste within the property for a better future.
Experiential education is our preferred teaching approach as our guests get to understand things better when they have an opportunity to experience. We facilitate interactions that involve observation, feel, build, touch among other experiences. We bring back the childís inborn love for the nature and open environment of curiosity and education.
We aim at a larger citizen scientist audience who would help our aim of spreading the word of awareness and education at various levels. At core, we would want to make sure there is a safe coexistence between people and animals and reconnecting them safely in the natural world. The reality of seeing of able to visualise the common species that were found within the human settlements have become a species of special mention, the locals often involving in poaching activities due to the lack of awareness of the particular species which were the major driving factor in the birth of Jeevarasi. 
We aim bring in an incredible therapeutic heal with the help of animals from the new world effects of long hour static works. We work with our animals to help and create a comfortable space to overcome the fears, so children can realise their full potential as a citizen scientist, enthusiast, creator and conservationists. 

The norms for our trust, Jeevarasi involves the following such as Pet sanctuary, Nature Sanctuary, Education centre, Science, Research, Rescue centre, Sustainable Tourism, Religion, Charity, Art

Pet Sanctuary ñ Pet sanctuary is a concept of experiential approach of educating the citizen scientist and enthusiast about the species of birds, reptiles, rodents, amphibians, fishes and mammals. Mammals that have been domestic pet over the years which have evolved closer to humans are also a part of the system such as several breeds of domestic cows, horses, goats, dogs and cats. We majorly involve exotic species which are not found in the specific subcontinent of India and the associated islands. We create a closer relation with all the species at Jeevarasi and the citizen scientist would have a closer interaction and an experiential approach of learning about all the species present which would help them learn things better and understand the need of conservation and protection of the same.

Nature Sanctuary - Nature sanctuary is a concept of experiential approach of educating the citizen scientist and enthusiast about the species of plants. Exotic plants that are present throughout the world and that should be protected and conserved have been preserved at this particular property were the enthusiast and the citizen scientist get to learn more on each and every plants. We majorly involve exotic species which are not found in the specific subcontinent of India and the associated islands. We create a closer relation with all the species at Jeevarasi and the citizen scientist would have a closer interaction and an experiential approach of learning about all the species present which would help them learn things better and understand the need of conservation and protection of the same.

Protection of environment ñ Protection of environment has always been our key motto and important role that we wish to play in the future. We aim at doing this particular thing by creating awareness programmes across schools, colleges, corporate companies and to small and larger business sectors and involving them in the protection and conservation of the environment as a whole which serve as a key of survival for any species in that specific environment. Protecting environment by planting of trees, we aim at planting a minimum of 1000 trees for each semester and a installation of nesting boxes for the breeding and conservation of species such as house sparrows which are in at most necessity in the current situation.

Education centre ñ Educating the enthusiast on various species and their need of conservation and educating of several species and their importance in the particular environment. This centre aims at educating the people to become responsible citizen scientist who can spread the word of awareness, protection and conservation of species in any specific environment.

Science ñ A scientific approach in the development and promotion of awareness among the species, and creating a safe environment in the coexistence of the humans and the animals which we aim at a longer run could be achieved in the particular circumstances.

Research ñ Involving all the citizen scientist in research facilities so that they could help in the awareness and conservation of the specific species that are much needed in protection and conservation in the nature.

Social welfare ñ Working for a social cause has all the importance for the society and showcasing the society impact factor for the particular activity that we involve ourselves in such as stray dogs rescue, rescue of all pets and protection of the same by creating a greater society impact factor.

Religion ñ Religion always involves a specific culture and tradition of any particular place and destination. We aim at protecting and preserving the culture for better future, as we have verified that all the cultural and religious practice involves in the protection of species at various levels and we aim at developing the same in the righteous sense.

Charity ñ Serving the people and animals in need are at most importance, we aim at creating a world of satisfaction and peace which enables no human or animal being that is suffering at any cost. We involve in creating funds and collecting charity funds for helping the people in need and the animals with the help of that particular funds.

Art ñ The special focus on developing the various skills of art such as drawing, painting and other essential potential skills that are much required in the modern world either digital or non-digital medium of skills.
